# Happiness_Index_Data_Visualization Project

# Summary 

Happiness is an important standard by which we can measure people’s well-being and health. Since there is no objective standard for happiness, the World Happiness Report provides a way by which we can observe the attributes that are potentially involved in determining happiness. If we could understand which factors play the most important roles in contributing to happiness, we can seek to improve our own happiness. We are planning to build a data visualization that allows government officials and citizens themselves to determine citizens’ well-being and identify any areas of improvement. This visualization will show the happiness rank of each country and their related attributes, allow users to filter by year to see the changes over time, display the correlation of attributes to their respective countries’ happiness rankings, and allow users to compare data from up to 5 countries visually.

# Dataset
- First dataset is a CSV file that contains 166 countries’ happiness indices with 1949 rows. Each country has data from 2005 to 2020, with 11 associated attributes.
- Second dataset containing topographical data for the map’s geographical areas. 
# Goal and Tasks

Bob is a researcher conducting a study on the mental well-being of Canadian citizens. He wants to be able to [look up] specific attributes that contribute to Canadian citizens’ self-perceived happiness levels in order to [compare] the levels of each attribute. He then wants to [compare] Canada’s information with another country. When Bibo opens the “Happiness Index,” he will see a map displaying the geographic location of each country and their happiness level in 2013 encoded by colour opacity. The countries with the highest and lowest happiness levels will be highlighted by default and their attributes displayed on the spider chart. He can also see a scatterplot plotting the social support of each country against its happiness level. He will be able to use the dropdown filter next to the scatterplot to change the plotted attribute. This will allow him to [analyze] the [correlation] of each country’s selected attribute with its happiness level. When he does so, he may notice that there is a positive correlation between “social support” and a country’s happiness level. From this information, he hypothesizes that having an adequate level of social support is correlated with a citizen’s happiness level. To observe a specific country, he can then click on a country that he is interested in on the map – in this case, Canada. When he does so, he may notice on the spider chart that its “social support” appears to have the highest level out of all the factors. He can also observe Canada’s life ladder value displayed on a smiley-face chart below the spider chart. By scrolling down on the map, he will be able to change the attribute that is currently displayed on the map, while Canada remains highlighted. If he wants to compare another country to Canada, he can select one on the map. He can then observe this other country’s attributes plotted against Canada’s on the spider plot. Another row will also appear on the smiley face scale, displaying the new country’s life ladder value. Now, he wants to observe these same data points, but for the year 2005. He will be able to [look up] the [distribution] of the happiness levels and attributes of 2005 by using a range slider to change the year displayed on all the charts, preserving the countries that he has selected.

# Interactions
Scrolling Cases:
Case 1: While nothing has been selected by the user, scroll through the webpage to see different attribute values on the map. The highest and lowest values for each attribute will automatically be highlighted.
Case 2: Select one or multiple countries and scroll through the webpage. Even when the user scrolls, only the countries that they have selected will remain highlighted, and the highest and lowest values will not be highlighted.
Click a country to select it. Its corresponding point in the scatterplot will be highlighted, and its attribute values will be displayed on the spider plot. Note that the countries filled with grey are unclickable, which means that the data is missing.
Hovering over a country will bring up a tooltip displaying its country name, current attribute displayed, and value for said attribute. Note that the attributes displayed are different depending on the location that the user is scrolled to on the webpage. Hovering over a country filled with grey will not display a tooltip.
Using the year slider will change the year displayed on the map.
Using the search widget to select any country will also update the country in the spider plot and smiley face plot. This is primarily used for convenience, since some countries are too small to be clicked.

